		Introduction to CAD


CAD - (Computer Aided Design) is a general term in computers for a program
that aids in designing of complex engineering or scientific models.

A CAD may provide extremely simplified representation and application of
large and complex algorithms or mathematical functions in form of 
generelised tools.

A Tool is thus a representation by name or image or both of a process that
can be applied to do something.. like solving a problem or processing data.

The user of a CAD is then only bothered with solving his problem with
application of provided tools, he/she then needs to know only about what a
tool is supposed to do or provide with rather than re-design every 
required element by self for solving every new design problem.

For example an electronics engineer need not design a new program with
optimum mix from all fields like geometry,shortest path algorithms(graph 
theory), 3d graphing, image rendering and colour coding, calculus, 
Numerical methods, device modeling and databasing for including newer
devices to be simulated about which complete study isn't yet done by
designer, but the software gives a few characterstics and gives complete
simulation under different conditions telling if the device is optimum or
desirable... etc for every small circuit calculation program that
simulates a different circuit, while CAD will provide for most of the
requirements saving large amount of time and giving the designer more
time to concentrate on the design problem just related to circuit itself,
and good enough tools to give a very good picture of design performance.

CAD has a major advantage over conventional methods of reducing largely
the cost and time and resource exhaustion in development of a design.
The quality, ease and accuracy of design are greatly enhanced without
burdening the designer to put any more effort, greatly reducing fatigue
giving user a greater creative insight to design and more scope for
improvement.

CAD is a very general term, and there are various catagories belonging
to specific areas or for generalised design..

few examples of CAD programs...

- Mathematics CAD        - Mathematica(Wolfarm research)
- 3D Mechanical CAD      - Mechanical Desktop
- Electronic device      - SPICE, PSPICE
  modeling ang simulation
- 3D Animation CAD	 - 3D Studio MAX
- General and 		 - AutoCAD
  Architechtural

and various others...